Cirong Liu, Cecil Chern-Chyi Yen, Diego Szczupak, Xiaoguang Tian, Daniel Glen, Afonso C. Silva,
Marmoset Brain Mapping V3: Population multi-modal standard volumetric and surface-based templates,
NeuroImage,
Volume 226,
2021,
117620,
ISSN 1053-8119,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117620.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811920311058)
Abstract: The standard anatomical brain template provides a common space and coordinate system for visualizing and analyzing neuroimaging data from large cohorts of subjects. Previous templates and atlases for the common marmoset brain were either based on data from a single individual or lacked essential functionalities for neuroimaging analysis. Here, we present new population-based in-vivo standard templates and tools derived from multi-modal data of 27 marmosets, including multiple types of T1w and T2w contrast images, DTI contrasts, and large field-of-view MRI and CT images. We performed multi-atlas labeling of anatomical structures on the new templates and constructed highly accurate tissue-type segmentation maps to facilitate volumetric studies. We built fully featured brain surfaces and cortical flat maps to facilitate 3D visualization and surface-based analyses, which are compatible with most surface analyzing tools, including FreeSurfer, AFNI/SUMA, and the Connectome Workbench. Analysis of the MRI and CT datasets revealed significant variations in brain shapes, sizes, and regional volumes of brain structures, highlighting substantial individual variabilities in the marmoset population. Thus, our population-based template and associated tools provide a versatile analysis platform and standard coordinate system for a wide range of MRI and connectome studies of common marmosets. These new template tools comprise version 3 of our Marmoset Brain Mapping Project and are publicly available via marmosetbrainmapping.org/v3.html.
Keywords: Magnetic resonance imaging; Diffusion tensor imaging; Computed tomography; Callithrix jacchus; Population templates; Brain surfaces
